Early the next morning, at the gate to Miss Havisham’s house, I had  
an unpleasant surprise. Orlick let me in. He told me that he was  
Miss Havisham’s gatekeeper now. I felt worried and I went to see her  
at once. As I entered her room, I found that neither she nor her  
house had changed at all since my last visit more than a year ago.  
Then I noticed an elegant lady sitting next to Miss Havisham. When  
she looked up and I could see her face, I realised it was Estella! She  
was more beautiful than ever, but she made me feel like a poor  
working boy again. ‘Has Estella changed much, Pip?’ asked  
Miss Havisham.  ‘Yes, at first, I didn’t recognise her,’ I began. ‘But now I can see...’  
‘What? Please don’t say that she is the Estella you knew!’ Miss  
Havisham said, annoyed. ‘That Estella was proud and rude to you.  
Don’t you remember?’ ‘Well, perhaps, but it was a very long time  
ago,’ I said, not quite sure of myself. Estella agreed with Miss  
Havisham that she had been unkind to me. ‘Has Pip changed?’ Miss  
Havisham asked her. ‘Very much,’ Estella replied. Miss Havisham  
laughed, and told us to walk together in the garden. ‘As you have  
become a fine gentleman, I expect you have new friends,’ Estella  
said. ‘The ones you had in the village wouldn’t be good enough now,  
would they?’ I agreed with her. And at that moment, I made the  
decision not to see Joe again. ‘Do you remember when you were  
cruel to me?’ I asked Estella. She looked at me in surprise. ‘You  
made me sad then,’ I told her. ‘I don’t remember,’ she replied. ‘But,  
you know, I have no heart; I am neither kind nor good!’ As she spoke,  
she reminded me of someone, but I did not know who it was. I forgot  
the idea, thinking instead how beautiful she was. But she was still so  
cold! Later, when I was alone with Miss Havisham, I told her that  
everyone must love Estella. Then she whispered, ‘I’ll tell you what  
real love is! It is giving your heart to someone completely – just as I  
did!’ She fell back in her chair with a loud cry. As I tried to help her,  
there was a knock on the door and Mr Jaggers entered. I did not  
know why he had come, but Miss Havisham recovered almost at  
once. ‘Do come in, Mr Jaggers,’ she said. She was obviously  expecting him, and thanked him for arriving on time. That evening,  
as we all ate dinner together, I noticed that Mr Jaggers did not look at  
Estella at all. But she looked at him often. It gave me a strange  
feeling. As soon as possible, I told Mr Jaggers how worried I was to  
see Orlick again. I was sure that Miss Havisham was not safe with  
him as her gatekeeper. ‘Leave it to me!’ he replied, and he promised  
to dismiss Orlick. Estella planned to visit London soon, and I had agreed to meet 
her off the coach when she arrived. I was secretly delighted and could  
not sleep that night. I was now sure that Miss Havisham wanted me  
to marry Estella. In the morning, as I took a walk through the village, I  
saw several people that I knew. I did not speak to any of them,  
however; I was too proud of myself and my new life. I also kept away  
from Joe, but feeling guilty that I had not seen him, I sent him a  
present before I left. On my return to London, I told Herbert about  
my feelings for Estella. ‘I adored her before, but I adore her twice as  
much now!’ I said. ‘She will make you unhappy,’ he replied. ‘You  
should try to forget her!’ I knew that would be impossible. When  
Estella arrived in London, some weeks later, I thought once again  
that she reminded me of someone. ‘But who could it be?’ I asked  
myself. Estella climbed out of the coach. In her new coat, she  
seemed more beautiful than ever before. She stood outside the inn  
while I brought her luggage to her. Then I asked where she was going.  
‘I am going in a carriage to Richmond,’ she answered, ‘and you are  
coming with me. You must take this purse and pay for everything!  
We are not free to do what we want, you know; we have to follow our  
instructions.’ She did not seem annoyed that I was going with her,  
however. While we waited for a carriage to arrive, we went into the  
inn to drink some tea. The room that we sat in was dark and gloomy,  
but I was happy because Estella was with me. Then Estella told me  
that she would be staying with a wealthy lady, who would be paid to  
introduce her to suitable people in London. ‘Do you like your  
teacher, Mr Matthew Pocket?’ she asked, after a few moments. ‘As  much as I 
could like anyone who is not you!’ I replied. ‘You silly boy!’  said Estella, ‘how can  you say that? To return to Mr Matthew Pocket;  I am sure that he is a much better 
person than some other members  of his family! They are Miss Havisham’s 
relatives, you know, and they  are jealous of you. I have heard them complain 
about you! But Miss  Havisham refuses to discuss you with them, so they cannot  
influence her.’ A carriage soon arrived, and we set off to Richmond.  
On the way, we saw the walls of Newgate Prison. I told Estella that  
Mr Jaggers visited his clients there, and knew all the secrets of that  
terrible place. ‘He knows the secrets of every place, I think!’ Estella  
replied. ‘I have known him for most of  my life, but I know him no better now than 
I did when I was a small  child. How well do you know him?’ she asked. ‘I have had 
dinner at  his house,’ I said. ‘That must be a very interesting place,’  
replied Estella. Just then, our carriage passed under a street light  
and I knew again that she reminded me of someone. We continued  
our journey, passing Mr Matthew Pocket’s house in Hammersmith  
on the way. I invited Estella to visit me there, and she told me that I  
was expected to call on her, in Richmond. ‘And, Pip,’ she sighed,  
‘Miss Havisham wants me to write to her often, to say how I am,  
where I have been, and what I have worn. She has given me nearly  
all of her jewellery, you know!’ This was the first time that Estella had  
called me Pip! I was delighted, and thought it would be wonderful if I  
married Estella and lived in Richmond with her. But in my heart, I  
knew the truth; Estella would never make me happy.  