 
I visited Miss Havisham, wearing my new clothes. ‘I have been given a fortune  since I last saw you, 
Miss Havisham,’ I said. ‘And I am so grateful!’ ‘I know,’ she  replied, ‘and you have a good life ahead 
of, you. But remember to follow Mr  Jaggers’ advice!’ She looked pleased as I said goodbye, and I felt 
sure that she was  my secret benefactor. After all, Mr Jaggers had told me that I was to be educated  
in London by Mr Matthew Pocket, one of Miss Havisham’s relatives. When I was  sitting on the coach 
to London the next day, after a quick goodbye to Joe, my  sister and Biddy, I felt as though the whole 
world was waiting for me. It was five  long hours before I arrived at Mr Jaggers’ office in London. His 
clerk, Mr Wemmick, explained that because Mr Jaggers was still at work, I should wait  for him in his 
office. It was an unpleasant place, and I was sad that I had left the  blacksmith’s. When Mr Jaggers 
returned, he said that I should go to my lodgings at  Barnard’s Inn, where I would share rooms with 
Mr Matthew Pocket’s son. He  wanted to take me to his father’s house in a few days’ time, so that I 
could meet  my new teacher.  ‘Here is some money, Pip,’ Mr Jaggers continued. ‘It is a lot of money! 
But don’t  worry; I will know how much you spend, in case there are any difficulties.’ This  was good 
news! I felt happier now, and I agreed to go to my lodgings with Mr  Wemmick. He told me that Mr 
Matthew Pocket lived in Hammersmith, five miles  away. When we came to Barnard’s Inn, I was 
disappointed. It looked dusty and  gloomy. Mr Wemmick left me at the door, but no one answered it. 
I thought that  no one would come and let me in, but after about half an hour, I heard footsteps. A 
tall, thin young man appeared. ‘Mr Pip?’ he asked. ‘I am sorry! I went to buy  some fruit at the market 
and I thought you would arrive later than this.’ He invited  me in. It was only when he turned to speak 
to me, in the light of the window, that  I saw who he was – the pale young gentleman! Herbert Pocket 
was the pale young  man. He was not handsome, but his face was cheerful, and I liked him at once.  
However, I had a strange feeling that he would never become rich. We immediately began talking. I 
discovered that Miss Havisham had once thought  she might adopt Herbert, so she had invited him 
to visit her. That was on the day  that I had met Herbert, and fought with him in the garden. After that 
visit, however, Herbert was not invited to Miss Havisham’s again. ‘She didn’t think I was  suitable,’ 
Herbert told me. ‘But if she had adopted me, I would probably be rich  now. And if that had 
happened, then I might even be Estella’s fiancé, too!’  ‘You must be disappointed!’ I said. ‘No, not at 
all,’ he replied. ‘I think I have had a  lucky escape! Estella is proud and cruel. Miss Havisham 
adopted her, you know. She wants to use her – to take revenge on men!’ I was very surprised. Estella 
was adopted! Why did Miss Havisham want to use her in such a strange way? When  we sat down to 
eat, Herbert continued to tell me about Miss Havisham. First,  however, he told me how to behave at 
the dinner table, for which I was grateful. I soon discovered from Herbert that Mr Jaggers was Miss 
Havisham’s lawyer. Mr  Jaggers had suggested that Herbert’s father, Mr Matthew Pocket, should be 
my teacher in London. I was convinced now that Miss Havisham was my secret  benefactor! Herbert 
told me more about Miss Havisham. He explained that when  she was a young woman, she and her 
half-brother had inherited a fortune from  their father. It was not long, however, before her half 
brother spent his share of the money  and became jealous of her. He wanted to have her money, and 
he started to think  about how he could get it from her. He didn’t care if he had to hurt her to get 
it.Soon afterwards, Miss Havisham got engaged. During this time, she gave most of her fortune to 
her fiancé. This was against the advice of her cousin, Matthew  Pocket, who warned her not to trust  
her future husband too much. Miss Havisham became very angry with Matthew Pocket and ordered 
him to leave her house. He  has never been there since.  ‘Is your father still angry with Miss Havisham 
for ordering him to leave?’ I aske d Herbert. ‘No, he’s not angry at all,’ replied Herbert. ‘But when Miss Havisham sent  him away that day, she said that he wanted to get her money himself. If he visited  
her now, it would look as if he still wanted her money .’ On the morning of the  wedding, when 
everything was ready and the guests were expected, there was  some bad news. Miss Havisham’s 
fiancé had left her! She received the news at  twenty to nine in the morning, while she was getting 
dressed. Ever since that  time, more than twenty -five years ago, neither Miss Havisham, nor her 
house, had  changed at all. Even the clocks in the house had been stopped. ‘But why didn’t  Miss 
Havisham’s fiancé marry her?’ I asked. ‘He would have had all her property  then.’ ‘Perhaps he was 
already married,’ Herbert said. It seemed that the fiancé  had, in fact, planned everything with Miss 
Havisham’s half -brother, hoping to take  as much money from her as they could. Nobody knew if the 
two men were still  alive, or not. The following day, I was taken to meet the Pocket family at their  
home in Hammersmith in West London. They lived by the river in an old house.  When we arrived, we 
found Herbert’s younger brothers and sisters playing noisily  in the garden. Despite the place being 
very ordinary, it was a happy house, and I  immediately felt comfortable there. Mr Matthew Pocket 
and his wife were as  cheerful as their son, and made me welcome. After they showed me my room,  
they introduced me to two other young men who were also staying there. We  soon got to know each 
other very well. Startop was good -natured, but Bentle  Drummle was proud and grumpy. I was 
learning how to live like a young  gentleman and improving my education because I would be very 
rich one day. Mr  Jaggers gave me more money whenever I asked, which was quite often. I noticed,  
however, that he never laughed, and everyone seemed scared of him. One day,  while waiting in Mr 
Jaggers’ office, I had a conversation with Mr Wemmick about  Mr Jaggers’ work. I noticed that Mr 
Wemmick was proudly wearing a ring. He told  me that it was a present from people he had worked 
with. I was invited to Mr  Wemmick’s house. He lived with his father some distance from the center 
of London, in a strange building that looked like a small wooden castle. Mr Wemmick  told me that 
all of London’s criminals were afraid of Mr Jaggers, so they left him  alone. I learnt that Mr Jaggers did 
not even lock his house at night, and often said,  ‘I want to see the man who’ll dare to rob me!’  