When I visited Miss Havisham the next day, I was sorry 
that Estella was not there. Miss Sarah Pocket opened the 
door for me. ‘What do you want?’ Miss Havisham said 
angrily. ‘I hope you don’t want anything from me, 
because you will get nothing!’ ‘I don’t wa nt anything. I 
have come to say thank you – for my apprenticeship,’ I 
explained. ‘Well,’ Miss Havisham replied, ‘from now on, 
come to see me once a year, on your birthday!’ I 
promised that I would. ‘You are looking for Estella, aren’t 
you?’ Miss Havisham c ontinued. ‘She has gone away for 
her education and she will become a lady. Do you feel 
that you have lost her, Pip?’ She laughed, and I did not 
know what to say. Then she asked me to leave, so I set off 
for home. On the way, I met Mr Wopsle, one of the 
guests from that Christmas dinner a few years ago, and 
we walked together. It was getting darker now. In the 
mist, a man came slowly towards us, and we realised it 
was Orlick. He told us that some more convicts had 
escaped from the prison ship, and he seemed to act 
strangely as he walked with us along the road back. On 
my return to the house, I was surprised to find a crowd of 
people in the kitchen. While Joe had been out that 
evening, someone had broken into our house and they had hit Mrs Joe on the head, injuring her badly. Nothing 
had been taken, but a convict’s leg - irons lay on the floor. 
I immediately remembered the convict who I had helped 
two years before in the graveyard. However, I felt sure 
that the person who committe d the crime was not him. I 
suspected Orlick because he had been so angry with my 
sister. However, I had no proof. Mrs Joe was unable to 
speak or walk again after the attack, but she could draw, 
and one day, she drew a hammer. Biddy and I knew at 
once that the hammer meant the blacksmith’s hammer, 
which meant Orlick! When Mrs Joe was able to sit in the 
kitchen again, we could see that she was scared of him. 
Mrs Joe could not hurt me now and because Joe needed 
help in the house, Biddy came to cook and clean f or us. 
At last, my life was improving. Some years passed, and I 
continued my apprenticeship at the blacksmith’s. My 
visits to Miss Havisham’s house continued once a year. It 
seemed as though time, like her old clocks, had stopped 
there. I did not see Estel la again during that time, 
although I often thought of her. And when it was time to 
leave, Miss Havisham always gave me a coin and told me 
to come back on my next birthday. Biddy soon became an 
important member in our household. She looked after everything well, and also cared for my sister. Mrs Joe 
could no longer walk or speak, and now I felt sorry for 
her. As the weeks became months, and the months 
became years, I also saw how kind and good Biddy was. 
One day, I said to her. ‘Biddy, I want to b ecome a fine 
gentleman.’ ‘But don’t you think you are happier as you 
are, Pip?’ she asked, surprised. ‘No, Biddy,’ I explained. ‘I 
will never be happy unless I can lead a different life to the 
one I live now.’ She looked down and was quiet. ‘I don’t 
want t o be just a blacksmith,’ I continued. ‘Ever since I 
met Estella at Miss Havisham’s, I have wanted to improve 
myself. She is so beautiful and clever, and I admire her 
very much!’ After a moment, Biddy asked quietly, ‘Do you 
want to become a gentleman to ups et her, or to marry 
her? If you want to upset her, then you shouldn’t care 
what she thinks; if you want to marry her, she probably 
isn’t worth the effort.’ ‘That may be true,’ I replied, ‘but I 
still admire Estella so much!’ I knew that I was making a 
mist ake, but I could not change my feelings. Biddy told 
me then that she was glad I could talk to her, and said she 
would never tell anyone else. ‘I will always tell you 
everything, Biddy!’ I said. ‘Until you’re a fine gentleman,’ 
she replied, in a strange, sa d voice. It seemed impossible that my wish to become a gentleman would come true. 
But one evening, while Joe and I were at the village inn, 
listening to Mr Wopsle reading aloud from a newspaper, I 
noticed that a stranger was looking at us. Then I 
remembered him. He was the gentleman I had met on 
the stairs at Miss Havisham’s house, years before. ‘Is your 
apprentice, Pip, here?’ the dark man asked us, looking at 
Joe. ‘I need to speak privately to you both. He sounded 
like an important man, so we invited him to come back to 
the workshop w ith us. Once there, he said he was Mr 
Jaggers, a lawyer from London. ‘I am working for 
someone but I cannot tell you their name,’ he explained. 
‘I have to tell you that Pip has great expectations. He will 
receive a large amount of property in future, so no w he 
must have an education. The only condition is that he 
does not ask who his benefactor is.’ I immediately 
agreed. Joe was so surprised that he did not object at all 
when Mr Jaggers asked him if he could end my 
apprenticeship immediately. ‘I have a larg e sum of money 
for you,’ Mr Jaggers continued, turning to me, ‘and your 
education will begin soon in London, with Mr Matthew 
Pocket. He will be your teacher and he will make a 
gentleman of you! But first, take these twenty pounds to buy some new clothes.’ When Joe was asked if he needed 
any money for losing me at the blacksmith’s, he replied, 
‘Pip is welcome to go and find his fortune. Money makes 
no difference to my feelings for him. We will always be 
best friends.’ Joe was so good a nd kind, and really cared 
about me. When he and Biddy realised that I was to leave 
them in just a week, they both congratulated me, but 
they did not say much more than that. I knew that they 
were sad that I was leaving. My sister did not understand 
what wa s happening, although Biddy tried to explain 
everything to her. I decided that when I had bought my 
new clothes, I would put them on at Uncle 
Pumblechook’s house. ‘I don’t want all the poor people in 
this village to see me in my fine clothes,’ I explained to 
Joe and Biddy. They were both silent. Uncle 
Pumblechook, however, was delighted. ‘I will never forget 
you, Joe,’ I said, as I left the blacksmith’s a week later. 
However, in truth, I had begun to feel more and more 
ashamed of Joe’s poor education. When I said goodbye to 
Biddy, I asked if she could teach Joe to speak better, but 
to my surprise she refused. Suddenly, I felt lonelier than 
ever before.  
 