One cold, grey afternoon in the middle of winter, a small boy sat alone near the  
marshes. He was crying. That small boy was me, Philip Pirrip. As my name was difficult  
to say when I was small, my name became Pip. I was crying because it was Christmas  
Eve, and I was an orphan – my parents were dead, and so were five of my brothers and  
sisters. This happened when I was very young, so I did not remember them. I had lived  
with my sister and her husband, Joe Gargery, for most of my life. Joe was the village  
blacksmith, and Mrs Joe was twenty years older than me. She was tall and thin and liked  
to complain about me; she was often angry, but Joe was my friend. On this grey  
afternoon, when I was about seven years old, I had walked down to the graveyard at the  
edge of the village. I sat by my parents’ grave as the afternoon light slowly disappeared.  
The marshes nearby became dark and frightening. I was going to leave and go home,  
when a terrible voice shouted ‘Quiet!’ Then a man appeared from behind a grave. I  
nearly jumped out of my skin! ‘What’s your name, boy?’ he shouted, walking slowly  
towards me. ‘Pip, sir.’ ‘Show me where you live!’ said the man. I pointed to my village, not  
far away. ‘Who do you live with?’ ‘My sister, sir – Mrs Joe Gargery – she’s the wife of Joe  
Gargery, the blacksmith, sir.’ ‘A blacksmith!’ The man looked down and I saw his leg  
irons. Then I noticed his old grey clothes, and his thin dirty face. He was shaking. ‘Do  
you know what a blacksmith’s file is?’ he asked.  ‘Yes, sir.’ He suddenly grabbed my shoulders and 
shook me. ‘I want you to bring me that  file early tomorrow morning. And some food, too. Then I will 
let you live! What do you  say?’ I was frightened, so I promised to bring the file and the food to him 
the next day.  ‘Now go home!’ he shouted. I ran until I could run no more. When I looked back, I saw  
the man far out on the marshes, a black shape against the angry red sky. Once I got my  
breath back I hurried home as fast as I could. When I ran into the kitchen, feeling happy  
to be home safely, Mrs Joe angrily asked me where I had been. ‘Only to the graveyard,’ I  
cried. ‘Graveyard!’ she shouted. ‘You’re lucky not to have been put in the graveyard long  
ago! It’s because of me that you’re still here. But I didn’t want to look after you! It’s bad  
enough being a blacksmith’s wife. I never asked to be your mother!’ That evening, I had  
work to do in the kitchen as usual. It was almost bedtime and I was helping to prepare  
lunch for the next day, when I heard a loud noise. ‘Listen! What is that?’ I said. ‘A convict  
escaped last night,’ Joe explained. ‘That noise was a warning to everyone in our village  
that another convict has got away!’ ‘From the prison ships,’ Mrs Joe added. ‘What are  
they?’ I asked. ‘They’re ships where they put people because they have committed a  
crime,’ replied my sister. ‘Now go to bed!’ she shouted. I remembered that I had seen a  
broken old ship, far out on the marshes that day. Perhaps it was a prison ship. As I fell  
asleep, I realised that the man I had met that day was one of the escaped convicts. He  
wanted a blacksmith’s file so that he could take off his leg -irons and get away from the  
marshes quickly. He scared me, but I also felt sorry for him. Early the next morning, I got  
up and went into the kitchen. It was Christmas Day, and guests were invited to dinner.  
There was some delicious cheese in the kitchen, as well as nuts, apples and oranges,  
and a cold meat pie. I took them all. Then I went into Joe’s workroom and found a  
blacksmith’s file. Closing the front door quietly behind me and holding all the food  
carefully, I set off. I ran to the graveyard and then out into the mist and over the wet  
marshes. Suddenly, quite by surprise, I saw a man in grey who seemed to be asleep. H e 
wore leg-irons and stood up when he saw me. At first, I thought he was the man that I  knew, but then I realised that his face was different. He looked at me for a moment  
before disappearing into the mist. I wondered who he could be and what he was doing  
out here. Soon afterwards, I found the man I was looking for. I gave him the food at once,  
and he ate it quickly as I told him about the other man that I had just seen. He wanted to  
know who he was and where he had gone, but I could not tell him. Then, as soon as he  
had eaten, he took the file from me and started trying to remove his leg -irons with an  
angry look on his face.  I was afraid again, so I ran home as fast as I could. As I ran back across the 
marshes, I  could hear the sound of the file on the leg irons through the mist. Mrs Joe was busy  
preparing the house for guests, so Joe and I were alone together. I began to feel guilty  
about the food and the file which I had stolen that morning, and I wanted to tell Joe what  
I had done. But then I thought he might not want to be my friend if I did, so I said nothing.  
It was not long before the guests arrived and we sat down to Christmas dinner. At first,  
nobody noticed that anything was missing. But then, to my horror, Mrs Joe invited  
everyone to try the delicious meat pie that Joe’s uncle, Mr Pumblechook, had given us.  
The guests happily agreed and she went to find it. Joe told me I could have some, and I  
felt very bad. At any moment, Mrs Joe was going to discover that the meat pie had  
disappeared from the kitchen. Unable to stay at the table with all the guests any longer, I  
got up from my chair and ran to the front door. But when I opened it, a group of soldiers  
entered, just as Mrs Joe came back into the room shouting, ‘The pie has gone!’  
The appearance of a group of soldiers made the guests forget about the pie and they all  
stood up from the table. Everyone wondered why the soldiers had come, and we all felt  
nervous. ‘We need a blacksmith to mend some handcuffs, please,’ the first soldier said.  
‘We’re looking for two convicts who broke their handcuffs and escaped. We think they  
are hiding out on the marshes, although they probably won’t try to get away until  
tonight.’ When he asked if we had seen them, everybody else said no. I did not speak.  
Joe mended the handcuffs for the soldiers, and they waited with us as he worked. When  
they were finished, Joe and I followed the soldiers out of the village and onto the  
marshes. ‘I hope we don’t find the convicts, Joe,’ I said quietly. ‘Me too, Pip,’ Joe replied.  
Day became night as we walked over the marshes. It was raining and the wind blew the  
rain into our faces. Suddenly, we heard angry shouts nearby. I was afraid of what was  
about to happen.  