The soldiers ran into the marshes and we saw two men. They were fighting and covered  
in mud. The soldiers pulled them away from each other. In the light of the soldiers’  
torches, I saw the man that I had helped. I wanted to say, ‘I didn’t tell the soldiers where  
to find you,’ but all I could do was shake my head. He gave me a long, strange look which  
I will never forget. ‘I have something to say,’ he said. ‘It was me. I stole the food from the  
blacksmith’s house this morning.’ He looked at Joe and added, ‘I’m sorry that I ate your  
meat pie.’ ‘You’re welcome. We don’t want you to be hungry,’ Joe replied kindly. The man  
turned away. Then he was taken to a boat nearby which took him to the black prison  
ship, far out on the marshes. We watched as he climbed back onto the ship in the  
distance and disappeared. At that moment, the torches went out. A year passed. I  
worked every day, helping neighbours with small jobs, but in the evening I went to the  
village school. The old lady who taught me often fell asleep, leaving her grand -daughter,  
Biddy, to show me how to read and write. One night, Joe saw me sitting by the fire, as I  
was practising my writing. ‘You know, Pip, you are very clever!’ he said. ‘Did you never go  
to school, Joe?’ I asked. ‘No, Pip,’ he replied. ‘My father didn’t let me go, but he had a  
good heart. He taught me to be a blacksmith. And after he died, I met your sister. She’s a  
fine woman.’ I looked into the fire. ‘I’m glad you think so, Joe,’ I said at last. ‘I wish she  
wouldn’t hit you, though,’ Joe said. ‘I would rather she hit me than you! We’ll always be  
best friends, won’t we, Pip?’ Just then Mrs Joe came in. ‘If this boy isn’t grateful to me  
now, he will never be!’ she said. I tried to look grateful, but I didn’t understand what Mrs  
Joe meant. ‘Miss Havisham wants Pip to go to her house,’ she said. ‘And he must go, or I  
will make him work hard here!’ Everyone in the village had heard of Miss Havisham; she  
was a very rich lady who lived in the nearest town. However, most people had never  
seen her because she never left her large, old house. ‘So how does she know Pip?’ Joe  
asked. ‘She doesn’t know Pip. Uncle Pumblechook visited her, and she asked him if he  
knew a boy who would go there to play with a child who lives there,’ Mrs Joe replied. ‘The  
boy will make his fortune by going to Miss Havisham’s house, and he’s going there  
tomorrow!’ Then she jumped on me, like an eagle on a lamb. I was washed very well that  
night. Uncle Pumblechook took me to Miss Havisham’s house in my best clothes, the  
next day. We waited at the gate until a very pretty, but proud, young girl appeared. ‘This  
is Pip,’ said Mr Pumblechook. ‘Come in, Pip,’ she said, opening the gate. Uncle  
Pumblechook was not invited in so I left him at the gate. I followed the girl through an  
untidy garden. The house looked unused and most of the doors were closed. Everything  
was dark inside, and we went upstairs with a candle. The girl left me at a door, telling me  
to enter. Inside was a dressing room lit by candles; the curtains were closed, so no  
daylight could enter. And then I saw her: the strangest lady I had ever seen, or would  
ever see. She was dressed completely in white, with a long white veil and flowers in her  
hair. But her hair was white, the flowers were dead, and the white dress was now yellow  
with age. I saw a bride in a wedding dress, but everything about her was old and sad. ‘Let  
me look at you,’ she said. As I stood before her, I noticed that the clock had stopped at  
twenty to nine.  ‘Do you know what I have here?’ the lady continued, her hands on her heart. ‘Yes,  
madam.’ I replied. ‘It’s your heart.’ ‘A broken heart’ she said. Then after a moment, she  
added, ‘I am tired, and I am bored. Play!’ 2 I wondered what game I could play, so I  
 replied that I could not play alone ‘Call Estella!’ the old lady said. When Estella entered,  
I saw that she was the girl who had let me in. Now she was told to play with me. ‘But he  
is just a poor working boy!’ she complained. Miss Havisham said something to her. I  
could not hear clearly, but I thought she said, ‘Well? You can break his heart.’ And so  
Estella and I played games while Miss Havisham watched silently. ‘What dirty hands you  
have!’ Estella said, unkindly. ‘And what ugly boots!’  I was ashamed. Finally, Miss Havisham called 
me to her side. ‘What do you think of  her?’ she asked, looking at Estella. ‘I think she is very proud. 
And very pretty. And very  rude,’ I said. ‘I would like to go now, please.’ Miss Havisham made me 
promise to come  back in six days. Then Estella led me back through the dark house and out into the  
garden. Before I left, Estella gave me some food and drink, but did not hand it to me.  
Instead, she put it on the ground. Tears came to my eyes. When she saw that I was  
crying, she smiled. I returned home, hurt and ashamed of my simple life. In the kitchen,  
Mrs Joe and Uncle Pumblechook were waiting for me. They wanted to know what had  
happened, but I didn’t want to tell them the truth. Later, when I was alone with Joe, I told  
him everything. I said that the beautiful girl at Miss Havisham’s house had said I was  
common, and that I felt ashamed.  Joe told me to be happy with my position in life, but I could not 
forget what had  happened. I knew that this was the beginning of something that would change the 
rest of my life. I decided to learn as much as I could at the village school. If I had a better  
education, perhaps Estella would be kinder. Two days later, I asked Biddy if she would  
help me more with my lessons, and she happily agreed. The village school was very  
busy and noisy, but when I left it that evening I hoped that with hard work, I would one  
day leave my simple life behind and become a fine gentleman. On my way home, I met  
Joe at the village inn. He was sitting with a man I had not met before. He looked at me  
strangely. ‘It’s bad weather tonight,’ Joe said. ‘The mist is so thick, you wouldn’t know  
there was a prison ship out there on the marshes!’ ‘Oh, is there?’ asked the man. ‘I don’t  
know this area. It seems very lonely out on those marshes. ‘Marshes are always lonely,’  
replied Joe. ‘Perhaps you’re right,’ said the man. The man then asked if any escaped  
convicts had been found recently, and I began to feel uncomfortable. Then the man  
stirred his cup of tea, and I saw that he was using a blacksmith’s file. It was the same file  
that I had taken from Joe’s workshop a year ago! But Joe did not notice.  