Estella had left Richmond, and was now living with Miss Havisham again. I decided to visit 
them immediately. Herbert offered to look after Provis while I was away; it was only to be 
for one night. On my way to Miss Havisham’s house, I stopped at the nearby inn and found 
Bentley Drummle there. He boasted that he was having dinner that evening with a y oung 
lady, and he looked pleased with himself. When he left on his horse, I noticed a man 
outside the inn who reminded me of Orlick. I went to see Miss Havisham at once. She was 
in her room, wearing her wedding dress. Estella sat next to her. She was knitt ing ‘Why are 
you here, Pip?’ Miss Havisham asked. I could see that she was surprised to see me. ‘You 
will not be surprised – or sorry – to know that I am very unhappy,’ I replied. ‘I know now who 
my benefactor really is. And I realise that until now, I hav e misunderstood everything! I 
thought that Mr Jaggers …’ ‘Mr Jaggers,’ Miss Havisham interrupted, ‘has nothing to do with 
this. He is my lawyer. The fact that he is also your benefactor’s lawyer is a coincidence, and 
that is all! He is a lawyer who works f or many different people.’ ‘But you misled me!’ I said. ‘I 
made a mistake, and you let me continue to believe it. That isn’t kind, Miss Havisham..’ 
‘Yes, I have misled you, Pip,’ Miss Havisham said. ‘But why should I be kind?’ ‘You were kind 
to me as a chi ld,’ I replied. ‘You paid for my apprenticeship with Joe. However, when you 
allowed me to believe that you were my benefactor, you were unkind to your family too.’ 
‘You believed what you wanted to believe.’ ‘I have lived with your relatives, Herbert and 
Matthew Pocket, in London,’ I said. ‘They are kind, and they helped me because they 
thought you were my benefactor. They wanted to make you happy, but you have misled 
them, too. They are both good people – not like some of your other relatives!’ Miss 
Havisham thought for a moment. Then she turned and asked, ‘Then tell me, what can I do 
to thank Herbert and Matthew Pocket?’ ‘Miss Havisham, please use your money to help 
Herbert,’ I replied. ‘Two years ago, I secretly arranged for him to get a better job so that  he 
could pay his debts. But now I must go abroad, and I cannot help him any more.’ Miss 
Havisham nodded. I turned to Estella, who was looking down at her work. ‘Estella, you 
know that I love you!’ I cried. She did not move. ‘I have loved you since we firs t met,’ I 
continued. ‘I thought Miss Havisham wanted us to get married.’ Estella looked at me coldly. 
‘I do not share your feelings,’ she said. ‘Don’t you remember? I warned you long ago that I 
have no heart.’ ‘I saw Bentley Drummle just now,’ I told her. ‘Surely you don’t love him?’ ‘We 
are going to marry,’ she answered. I left at once. Unable to think clearly, I walked all the way 
back to London. It was late that evening when I reached the edge of the city. Near my 
lodgings, a young boy was waiting. When he saw me, he stopped me and gave me a note 
from Mr Wemmick, warning me not to return home. I went to a hotel, but I was unable to 
sleep that night. The next morning, I visited Mr Wemmick and asked what had happened. 
He explained that while I was away, he had visited Newgate Prison. Someone there had 
warned him that Provis, Herbert and I were being watched. Mr Wemmick had also heard 
that Compeyson was alive, and that he was in London. Herbert had already been warned  by Mr Wemmick, so he had found Provis some new lodgings in a house by the river. Mr and 
Mrs Whimple lived there, together with their daughter, Clara. I left Mr Wemmick and went to 
see Provis at the Whimple’s house. Provis already knew that he was in danger , and agreed 
to escape abroad with me. Herbert and I decided that we would keep a boat on the river, 
close to the Whimple’s house. We could use it to escape when the time came. I began to 
take the boat out from the Whimples’ house regularly so that I could  practise rowing. I went 
out on the river every day, whatever the weather was. Sometimes Herbert came with me. 
The weeks passed slowly. Nothing happened, but Herbert and I feared for Provis. We felt 
that someone was permanently watching us. I was sure that  Estella had become Bentley 
Drummle’s wife. One evening in February, to take my mind off my sad thoughts, I went to 
the theatre. Mr Wopsle, a friend from home, was now working in London as an actor. I 
watched him perform and went to congratulate him afterw ards. When I saw him, Mr 
Wopsle told me that he had seen a man in black sitting behind me and watching me during 
the play. ‘Mr Pip, do you remember that day when you were a child and some soldiers came 
to the door?’ he asked. ‘I remember it well,’ I replie d. ‘Well, it is very strange, but the man in 
the theatre today seemed very familiar. When I saw his face, I remembered our walk across 
the marshes with the soldiers to find the convicts who had escaped. I am sure that the man 
I saw today was one of those c onvicts.’ I was sure that the man was Compeyson, but there 
was nothing I could do. Herbert, Provis and I waited. I felt we were going to have to wait for 
some time. *** Mr Jaggers, Mr Wemmick and I were eating dinner at Mr Jaggers’ house, and 
we had just b een talking about Miss Havisham. She wanted me to visit her the following 
day. ‘So our friend, Estella, has married!’ Mr Jaggers said. Mr Jaggers continued, ‘Bentley 
Drummle is strong, but he is not intelligent. He may find it difficult to be married to Es tella. I 
do not think they will have a happy marriage.’ He looked at Molly, his housekeeper. She 
quickly put some food on the table. I realised then that her hands, her eyes and her hair all 
reminded me of Estella! I was sure that they were related. As we were walking back home 
that evening, I asked Mr Wemmick to tell me Molly’s story. He explained that when she was 
young, Molly had been a homeless criminal. ‘She was once married,’ said Mr Wemmick, ‘to 
a man who used to spend a lot of time in prison. One da y, she was accused of murdering 
two people. She was acquitted by the court, however, thanks to Mr Jaggers. She became 
his housekeeper afterwards. This all happened more than twenty years ago. Mr Jaggers is 
very good at what he does.’ Could Estella be Molly ’s daughter? I wanted to find out, and 
hoped to get an answer from Miss Havisham the following day. To my surprise, Miss 
Havisham seemed almost afraid of me now. ‘You have asked me to help Herbert Pocket, 
and I will,’ she said, as soon as I entered her dre ssing room. ‘I will pay for him to continue 
working for Mr Clarriker.’ I was pleased. But then I thought of Estella, who was no longer 
there. Miss Havisham asked if I was very unhappy. ‘Yes,’ I said, ‘for many reasons, which I 
cannot discuss.’ Then she ask ed, ‘Is there nothing I can do?’ ‘I do not think so.’ ‘Oh, what have I done?’ she cried, over and over again. Her eyes were full of tears. ‘Is Estella married?’ 
I asked. ‘Yes,’ she said. ‘Forgive me, Pip! I used her to break your heart. But if you knew my 
story, you would pity me!’ Then she told me everything.  