A few days afterwards, I was invited to dinner at Mr Jaggers’ house with Herbert  Pocket, Startop and 
Bentley Drummle. Mr Jaggers lived in a large, gloomy building, not far from his office. We all sat 
down at a big table. There was plenty for  everyone to eat and drink, but Mr Jaggers kept everything at 
his side, and served  us himself. When he saw Drummle, he immediately asked me who he was. 
‘That is Bentley Drummle,’ I replied. ‘So, Bentley Drummle is his name, is it?’ 68 he said.  Mr Jaggers 
thought about this information for a moment before saying, ‘I like the  look of him!’ Mr Jaggers spent 
a lot of time looking at Drummle. He talked to  Drummle for a long time, and I heard Drummle 
boasting that he was much  stronger than Startop and me. We were both annoyed, and Startop and I 
found ourselves talking boastfully as well. Our conversation became a competition to  show who 
had the best skills. Mr Jaggers seemed to enjoy our talk as a form of  entertainment. But I didn’t 
enjoy it at all. I don’t know why I said some of the  things I did, but being among these people 
seemed to make me behave that way.  Just then, a woman of about forty entered the room. She was 
tall and thin, with  pale eyes and long hair, and she gave Mr Jaggers an anxious look as she put more  
food on the table. She seemed to be worried that Mr Jaggers would say  something bad about the 
food. He introduced her as Molly, his housekeeper.  ‘Now, if you gentlemen want to see some real 
strength, show them your wrists, Molly!’ Mr Jaggers continued. She pulled up her sleeves and 
showed them to us.  One of her wrists had terrible scars on it; it must have been cut badly in the 
past .‘I have never met a man or a woman with stronger hands than Molly,’ Mr Jaggers  said. ‘They are 
remarkable! Don’t you just think so?’ We all took turns to look at  her arms. Then, Mr Jaggers thought 
that Molly was getting too much attention, so  he told her to leave the room again. ‘At half -past nine, 
gentlemen,’ said Mr  Jaggers, ‘we need to finish. Please make good use of your time here.’ Until that  
time, Drummle continued to boast about things he had done, which Mr Jaggers  seemed to 
encourage. However, when Drummle left the house with Startop,  Drummle realized that he no 
longer had an enthusiastic audience for his boasting,  and the two started to argue. Before leaving, I 
told Mr Jaggers that I did not like  Drummle at all. He advised me to keep away from him and then he 
said good  night. Fortunately, however, Drummle finished his education with Mr Matthew  Pocket 
soon afterwards and returned home, to my great relief.  A few weeks later, a letter arrived from 
Biddy. She wrote: Dear Mr Pip, I am writing  to you at the request of Mr Joe Gargery to let you know 
that he is going to be in  London and would be very glad to see you. He will arrive at nine o’clock 
tomorrow  morning and hopes that this will be a good time for you. I am sure that you will be  happy 
to see him because you always had a good heart. Your poor sister is much  the same as when you 
left. We talk about you every day and think about what you  are saying and doing. Yours sincerely, 
Biddy I wished that I could pay Joe not to  come. He was my friend, but I was ashamed of him now. 
He wanted to visit me at  Barnard’s Inn, where I still had lodgings with Herbert. It was lucky, I 
thought, that  he was not visiting me at my tutor’s home in Hammersmith. I didn’t want to  introduce 
him to everyone there. Early one morning, Joe arrived at my lodgings.  He would not sit down. He 
looked very uncomfortable and he remained standing.  He held on to his hat nervously. He seemed 
anxious not to do or say the wrong  thing, but I was annoyed. If only he would not call me ‘Sir’ so 
often! We ate  breakfast with Herbert, who tried to help Joe to feel comfortable. But Joe coughed  too 
much, sat too far away from the table, and dropped food everywhere. It was  only when Herbert left 
for work, and we were alone, that I found out why he had  come. ‘Miss Havisham wishes to see you, 
Sir,’ Joe said. ‘And she wants you to  know that Estella has come home.’  I hoped that Joe could not 
see how I felt. ‘Pip, my dear friend,’ he said , affectionately. ‘I wish you well!’ Then he left. A few 
minutes later, I was sorry that I  had been so unfriendly to Joe. I hurried outside, hoping to call him back, but it  was too late. I could not see him anywhere. I decided to go home the following  day. 
Although I thought of staying with Joe, I told myself that a room would not be  ready for me at the 
blacksmith’s. I told myself that it would be better for Joe if I  stayed at a hotel instead, so I found one 
near Miss Havisham’s house. As I was  waiting to leave London on the coach, I saw two convicts 
standing nearby. They  wore leg-irons and handcuffs; their guard had a gun. I recognized one of the  
convicts immediately. It was the man who had given me a shiny new coin at the  village inn a long 
time ago. I hoped that he would not recognize me. After all, I was  older now, and dressed like a 
gentleman! When the coach arrived, the two  convicts and their guard climbed up, sitting just 
behind me. I tried not to look at  them, but I could not avoid their conversation. ‘When I first went to 
prison,’ I heard the first convict saying. ‘I was only inside for a few months. When I was told  that I 
could leave, another convict, Magwitch, asked me to help him. He wanted  me to find a boy who had 
helped him, years before, when he had escaped and  was hiding on the marshes. Magwitch didn’t 
know me then, but he gave me a  shiny new coin to give to that boy, if I ever found him. And I did!’ ‘So 
the convict I  gave the food and file to, all those years ago, is called Magwitch!’ I thought. ‘Huh!’  said 
the second convict. ‘Magwitch trusted you then, did he?’ ‘Yes, he did,’ the  first convict replied. ‘But 
he didn’t know me very well.’ ‘Magwitch got a life  sentence for that escape, you know!’ the guard 
said. Memories came back to  haunt me, and I was scared. I got off the coach as soon as I could, 
and walked the  rest of the way. It was late when I arrived at the hotel. I was feeling very tired, but  I 
didn’t sleep very well that night.  