Provis suddenly jumped up and leapt into the police officer’s boat. He grabbed Compeyson and  
pulled him to his feet. The crew of the steamer could not stop the ship and it passed close by us  
moments later. A large wave swept over us. There were shouts as our boat filled up with water,  and 
then began to sink. I was struggling to swim, and was pulled out of the river by the police  officers. 
Herbert and Startop had already been rescued, but Provis and Compeyson were  missing. Then we 
saw a dark shape in the water. It was Provis! He had been hit on the head by  the steamer as it 
passed by. We pulled him into the boat, too, and I sat with him. Compeyson  did not come back up. 
Provis had struggled with him under the water and pushed him away. He  did not see what 
happened to him after that. Provis lay in the bottom of the boat and I held his  hand. He had been so 
kind to me! I looked at him now, and felt only pity. He had left Australia to  return to England for me, 
and now he might have to pay with his life. ‘You can become a  gentleman without me, my boy,’ 
Provis said, weakly. ‘I will not leave you,’ I replied. Provis was  taken to the prison hospital, where I 
visited him every day. I could not leave him now, but my  debts were growing. Herbert had a new job 
in Egypt, and Mr Clarriker had asked if I would also  like to work for him there. He had agreed to give 
me some time to consider his offer. When  Provis appeared in court, he was found guilty. To my  
horror, he and thirty -two other criminals  were all given life sentences at once. Some were crying, 
but Provis was calm. He knew that this  might happen. I visited Provis in the prison hospital for one 
last time. He was very weak. ‘Provis,’  I said, ‘Your daughter is still alive! She is very beautiful, and I 
love her!’ Provis looked at me  affectionately. Then his hold on my hand became weaker, and he 
died. I was very tired, and  worried about my debts. Soon I became very ill, and I did not know what 
day or what time it  was. The illness gave me strange dreams. I heard voices talking to me and 
frightening memories  of the fire at Miss Havisham’s house came back to me. One morning, 
however, I opened my  eyes and saw Joe. He had been looking after me, like a child, for weeks. He 
was so kind! When I  was feeling better, Joe had some news for me. Miss Havisham had recently 
died, leaving most of  her money to Estella. She had also left some money to Mr Matthew Pocket, 
because I had told  her she should help him. I was very pleased to hear that I had been able to help 
him. 12 I also  found out that Orlick was in prison! With some other men, he had broken into Uncle  
Pumblechook’s house and tried to rob him, but Uncle Pumblechook had recognised him. Joe  
continued to look after me and I became stronger and healthier each day. One morning, I was  
surprised to find that Joe had gone, but he had left a letter for me. It said that he had paid all  my 
debts, so now I would not go to prison. The letter was signed: ‘Your best friend always, Joe.’ I  knew 
then that I must go back to the blacksmith’s very soon to thank him. I also felt that I must  see Biddy. 
I wanted to tell her how sorry I was that I had hurt her in the past and I hoped now  that she might 
marry me. It was a beautiful summer day when I returned to the blacksmith’s.  Nobody was in the 
house when I arrived, but after a few minutes, I saw Joe and Biddy together   in the street. They were 
delighted to see me, and Biddy began to cry. ‘It’s my wedding day, Pip!’  Biddy said, happily. ‘Joe and I 
have just got married!’.  They welcomed me back to the blacksmith’s, and although the news 
surprised me, I was glad  that I had never told Joe that I hoped to marry Biddy. ‘You have the best 
husband in the world,  Biddy!’ I said. ‘And Joe, you have the best wife!’ I asked them to forgive me. 
They both told me  they would, but they also said there was nothing to forgive. It was time for me to 
leave. Within  a few weeks I had sold everything I had in London. Then I travelled to Egypt, to work for 
Mr Clarriker. After some years there, Herbert and I both became managers in Mr Clarriker’s  
business. Eleven years passed before I saw Joe and Biddy again. They were very happy at the  
blacksmith’s and had two children, a little boy and a little girl. Joe told me that his son was  called Pip, after me. He and Biddy welcomed me warmly, and it felt as though I had never been  away. 
‘What kind people they are,’ I said to myself. ‘I am so lucky to know such good people.’  That night, I 
went to the place where Miss Havisham’s house used to be. It was no longer there;  instead, I found 
a large, untidy garden. As I walked in this strange place with the stars shining  brightly above me, I 
thought of Estella. She had been very unhappy with Bentley Drummle. He  had been cruel to her, 
and so she felt she had no choice but to leave him. Several years ago  Drummle had died in an 
accident with a horse, and I did not know if Estella had married again.  And then I saw her. Estella 
was no longer beautiful. She was older, of course, but she looked  tired, and her eyes were sad. But 
she still fascinated me. I called to her, and we sat down to talk.  ‘I have not been here for many, many 
years,’ Estella said. ‘But I have returned tonight to say  goodbye to this land. I have sold it now.’ Then 
she said quietly, ‘I have often thought of you, Pip.’  ‘You have always had a place in my heart,’ I 
replied. ‘I have been hurt, just as much as I hurt  you,’ she said, ‘and now I understand how you felt. 
Please tell me that we are friends, Pip.’ ‘We  are friends!’ I said at once. ‘And we will continue to be 
friends, even when we are apart,’ she  added. As we left the untidy garden, I felt sure, however, that 
we would never be apart again.  