When Miss Havisham’s fiancé left her, her heart was broken. As time passed, however, she  
wanted to take revenge on men. She decided to adopt a daughter so that she could teach 
her how to break people’s hearts. When she told Mr Jaggers that she wanted to adopt a 
little girl, he brought Estella to her. He told her that Estella was an orphan. ‘It is my fault that 
Estella is so  cruel. Forgive me, Pip!’ Miss Havisham cried. I told her that there was nothing 
to forgive; I knew  that I would always love Estella, even if she was cruel to me. Miss 
Havisham was crying more  now. I did not know how to help her, so I thought that I should 
leave. Before I went, I walked for  a while in the untidy garden. It was so full of memories! I 
was thinking of Estella, and my first  meeting with Herbert, when I suddenly had a terrible 
feeling. I was sure that something bad had  happened to Miss Havisham, so I ran back to her 
room. I quickly opened the door. Miss  Havisham was still in her chair, but she was 
screaming. A spark from the fire had fallen on her  wedding dress, and now it was burning 
fiercely. I was wearing a thick coat, so I took it off and  used it to cover her and put out the 
flames. I also pulled the tablecloth off the table in the  dining room and used that. The 
spiders ran away in all directions. I didn’t notice that I had burnt  my hands until the fire was 
out and we were lying on the floor of the black and burnt room.  said. ‘They were married 
and had a daughter. Provis loved the child very much, but one day,  after an argument, Molly 
disappeared with the little girl. Provis was afraid that his daughter was  dead. Oh, sorry, did I  
hurt you? Is the bandage too tight?’ ‘Not at all, Herbert. You are very  gentle. Please continue  
the story.’ ‘After several months, Provis heard that Molly had been  accused of murder. Some 
people thought that she had killed the child, as well as an older  woman. Provis was very  
upset and did not go to the court. Mr Jaggers worked as Molly’s lawyer  and she was 
acquitted. But Provis does not know what happened to Molly, or their daughter,  after that.’ 
‘Herbert!’ I cried, ‘This is incredible. Provis is Estella’s father!’ I went at once to Mr  Jaggers, 
and told him that I knew that Molly and Provis were Estella’s parents. He explained that  
when Molly left Provis, she had hidden Estella. Because the little girl suddenly  
disappeared,  Molly was accused of murder. Miss Havisham wanted to adopt a little girl at 
that time, so he  took Estella to her. And once Molly was free from prison, he asked her to 
become his  housekeeper. ‘Now that you know the truth, I advise you not to repeat it to 
anyone,’ Mr Jaggers  said. I promised that I would not tell anyone. Soon afterwards, two 
letters arrived. One was  from Mr Wemmick, telling Herbert and I that it was time to help 
Provis escape. The second  letter did not say who it was from. It promised that I would find 
out more about Provis if I went  that night to an old house, on the marshes near my village. I 
thought this was probably  important, so I decided to leave at once. But first I left a note for 
Herbert, telling him what had  happened. It was dark and wet as I walked to the old house 
on the marshes that evening. The  pale light of a candle, in a downstairs window, helped to 
guide me there. I knocked on the door,  but nobody came. Then I tried the handle and found 
that the door opened easily. As I went into  the building, however, I was hit by something. ‘Who is this?’ I shouted. ‘Help! Help!’ A man’s  strong hand held me against the wall. With 
my burnt arms, I could not fight. Then I was tied up.  By the light of the candle, I recognised 
Orlick. ‘Now I’ve got you!’ said Orlick, in a loud voice.  Then he shouted, ‘I am going to stop 
you. You have always spoiled things for me. I lost my job at  Miss Havisham’s because of 
you! And you told Biddy not to trust me!’ I knew that calling for  help would make no 
difference because the house was too far from any other building. As I  stood there, tied up 
against the wall, I thought of all the people who would suffer if I died now:  Provis would 
think I had deserted him; Herbert would be sad; Joe and Biddy would never know  how sorry 
I was for my behaviour towards them. ‘I’m going to tell you something,’ he said  quietly. ‘You 
made me angry and jealous, so I took my revenge!’  Now I knew what had happened. Orlick 
had found Provis’s leg -irons, years ago, when they were  forgotten on the marshes. So Orlick 
had deliberately left the leg -irons in the kitchen when he  attacked my sister! Nearly 
everyone who saw it thought that a convict had committed the  crime. But now, Orlick was 
going to kill me! He ran towards me, and I fainted. When I opened  my eyes, Herbert was 
next to me and Orlick had gone. When I left my house that morning, I had  dropped Orlick’s 
letter in the entrance hall to our rooms. After I had left, Herbert had found my  note and the 
letter and he had started to worry. He had met Startop, our friend from  Hammersmith, and 
together they had followed me to the marshes. He arrived with a group of  men from the 
village and this had saved my life. But now there was no time to look for Orlick.  We had to 
help Provis escape; any delay would be very dangerous for him. Herbert and I had  already 
made plans to help Provis escape. I was to go with Provis abroad, so I quickly packed a  
suitcase and took it with me to the river, where Herbert and Startop were waiting by our 
boat. We didn’t know exactly where we were going, but we had to get Provis out of the 
country without anyone else seeing us. The sun shone as we rowed slowly along the river 
so that no one  would notice anything strange about us. Provis joined us in the boat when 
nobody was  watching, and we went further down the river. Late that evening we tied our 
boat up and spent  the night at a nearby inn. We continued our journey the next day until we 
came to the place  where steamers took on passengers. Then we stopped our boat in deep 
water and waited.  About an hour later, the steamer to Hamburg appeared. We thought that 
this boat would be  our best opportunity, and we felt confident that nothing was going to go 
wrong with our plan.  Provis and I said goodbye to Herbert and Startop, and stood up. But as 
we did so, another boat  stopped next to ours. In it were some police officers and an older 
man. It was Compeyson! My  heart nearly stopped in surprise. But Provis was the most 
surprised of all of us. He wasn’t  expecting things to end like this at all. ‘Abel Magwitch, also 
known as Provis!’ a police officer  shouted. ‘You must come with us!’  