I did not understand Estella, or my feelings for her. My future in London and what my 
expectations might bring were also uncertain. I knew that I had changed, and not for the 
best, since I had met Mr Jaggers and learnt that I was to become a gentleman. I s ometimes 
wished that I had never met Miss Havisham. I also felt guilty for two reasons: I had not 
visited Joe, and I had been extravagant, encouraging Herbert to spend more money than he 
should. We had both become members of The Finches – an expensive gent lemen’s club 
where we ate large dinners and had discussions with some of the other members – 
including Bentley Drummle. Herbert and I often returned to our lodgings after midnight, and 
woke up late. After visiting my teacher in Hammersmith, I often went to  Richmond so that I 
could see Estella. I still hoped that she would like me, but I usually felt unhappy when we 
were together. Once, when I took Estella to visit Miss Havisham, they had a terrible 
argument. I had felt sorry for Miss Havisham as she sighed and complained to me that 
Estella was a proud, hard woman, with a cold heart. ‘You should know,’ replied Estella, 
‘because I am what you made me!’ If Estella had a cold heart, she hid it well. The wealthy 
woman, who Estella lived with in Richmond, had intr oduced her to many people in London 
and she now had many admirers. I was jealous of them all, especially Bentley Drummle. He 
was stupid, arrogant and ugly, and I was sorry that she knew him. One day, I told her how 
sad I was that she encouraged Drummle to visit her. ‘You know that I want to trick all of my 
admirers,’ she replied. ‘All of them, apart from you!’ At least Herbert and I were good 
friends, even though we were often in debt. As soon as we had paid off our old debts, new 
ones appeared. As Herbert had less money than I did, he soon owed more than me. Our 
extravagant life was interrupted one day when news came that my sister had died. Because 
she had been ill for so long and now lived so far away, I had almost forgotten about her; and 
although I was not sad, I was angry that her attacker had not been caught. And when I 
thought of Orlick, I wanted revenge. I returned home for the funeral and found the house 
full of neighbours, all dressed in black. As my sister was buried beside my parents, a bird 
sang high above us. Soon afterwards, Joe, Biddy and I were alone together. Joe was as good 
to me as ever, and Biddy was kind and patient. I was sorry that I had not visited them 
sooner. That evening, I went for a walk with Biddy. ‘What will you do now, Biddy?’  I asked 
her, affectionately. ‘If you want any money…’ ‘I’ll tell you, Mr Pip,’ she replied quickly. ‘I’m 
going to be the teacher at our new village school! I know that I will enjoy it. After all, I learnt 
such a lot when I helped you with your lessons at my grandmother’s school.’ I was pleased 
for her. Then I asked about Orlick. ‘I am not sure what he does now,’ she replied. ‘But I saw 
him by that tree on the night your sister died. I think I saw him there again tonight! But he 
has gone now.’ So Orlick had  attacked my sister, and now he was frightening Biddy! I 
promised that I would try to make Orlick leave the village. ‘And I will come to visit often,’ I 
said. ‘I am not going to leave you and Joe alone!’ ‘Are you sure that you will come often?’ 
she asked, in a very quiet voice. I was hurt. But in my heart, I was not sure that I would keep my promise. As I said goodbye to Biddy and Joe the next day, I realised that they knew me 
better than I knew myself. It would soon be my twenty -first birthday. I hoped that I would 
receive all of my fortune then, and discover the name of my secret benefact or. But when 
the day arrived, Mr Jaggers gave me a very extravagant present of five hundred pounds. He 
told me, however, that he could not answer any questions about my secret benefactor, nor 
could I send my thanks. He also said that he did not know when I  would meet my 
benefactor. I realised then that it might be years before I would know the truth. By now, I 
was worried about Herbert. He did not earn enough money to pay his debts, and so I 
decided to use my five hundred pounds to help him. Mr Wemmick sugg ested that I used 
some of my money to help a merchant, called Mr Clarriker, with his business. In return, Mr 
Clarriker agreed to meet Herbert and offer him a well -paid job. Herbert was delighted, and 
accepted at once. When I saw how happy he was, it seemed  that my expectations had 
done some good at last. Two years passed. Herbert and I moved to our new lodgings next to 
the river, and as I did not need a teacher any more, I no longer visited the Pocket family in 
Hammersmith. Herbert often travelled abroad fo r Mr Clarriker, and I missed him and hoped 
that he would soon return. One dark and stormy evening, when Herbert was away in 
France, I was reading by the fire in our lodgings. As the clock struck eleven, I shut my book. 
And then I heard it – a strange noise  outside on the stairs. I held up a light and ran to see 
what it was. ‘Is someone there?’ I called out. ‘Yes’, came a man’s voice, ‘I’ve come to see Mr 
Pip.’ ‘Is there something the matter?’ I asked, worried now. ‘Nothing’s the matter,’ said the 
man as he came towards me. And then, I saw him: a man of about sixty, with dark, grey hair 
and a heavy, rough coat. He was clearly delighted to see me. I invited him in and he looked 
around. ‘I’m glad you’ve grown up, my boy!’ he said. Suddenly, I realised that I kn ew him. It 
was as though the wind and rain had washed away the years since we had last met, in the 
graveyard where I had given him Joe’s file and some food. He was Magwitch, the convict 
from the marshes all those years ago. ‘I have never forgotten what you  did for me that day, 
Pip!’ Magwitch said. ‘I was sent to Australia for life when they caught me afterwards. I’ve 
been a sheep farmer there ever since, and have made a fortune.’ ‘Your friend kept his 
promise,’ I said. ‘He found me and brought me this.’ The n I showed him the shiny new coin I 
had been given years before by the stranger at the village inn. Magwitch smiled and 
nodded. ‘I wanted to find you as soon as I arrived back in England,’ Magwitch said, ‘so I 
wrote to Mr Jaggers and was given your address .’ Seeing my astonished face, he said, ‘Yes, 
Pip, I’ve made a gentleman of you! When you gave me the food and that file all those years 
ago, I decided that if I ever became rich, I would make you rich, too! I’ve worked hard in 
Australia ever since, so that  you won’t need to work. I’m your second father, Pip. You mean 
more to me than any son!’ I didn’t know what to say  