Magwitch pulled my gold watch out of my pocket, and looked at the ring on my finger, 
and at my clothes and books.  ‘What a fine gentleman you are now, Pip!’ Provis the 
convict Pip helped to escape, previously known as ‘Magwitch' Night watchman Mr 
Jaggers a lawyer Herbert Pocket Pip's friend and roommate in London Compeyson a 
dishonest person Arthur Compeyson's friend Magwitch pulled my gold watch out of my 
pocket, and looked at the ring on my finger, and at my clothes and books. he  said, 
happily. ‘Did you not think that I might be your benefactor?’ ‘No, never!’ I replied, 
horrified. ‘Only Mr Jaggers knew,’ Magwitch con tinued. ‘But all the time I was in 
Australia, I was planning to return home – to see my  gentleman!’ My heart sank when I 
heard this news. Miss Havisham was not my benefactor after all, and so Estella was not 
meant for me! And this convict had made me leave  Joe for a new life in London! I felt sad 
and ashamed. But worse was to come. Magwitch came close to me, and whispered, 
‘The problem is, my boy, that I have a life sentence. If I am caught here, I will be put back 
in prison!’  What would I do with  Magwitch? Where could he stay? I was upset by these 
and other questions that night while Magwitch slept well in Herbert’s room. On the way 
downstairs to get a light, I fell over something. It was a man, crouching in the corner! 
When I asked him what he was  doing he didn't reply and ran outside. I followed him, but 
the street was empty. I told the night watchman what had happened, and we looked for 
the man together. But we found no one. ‘We haven’t had many visitors tonight, because 
of the storm,’ the watchm an said. ‘But I saw your visitor arrive at eleven. He had another 
man with him, I think.’ ‘What did that other man look like?’ I asked. The night watchman 
did not know exactly, but thought he wore a dark coat. In the morning, I asked Magwitch 
if he had bro ught a man with him. He denied it, but said that someone could have 
followed him into the building. ‘We’ll turn you into the best gentleman in London, Pip!’ 
he said proudly, and threw a purse full of money onto the table. ‘Everything I have is 
yours! And t here’s a lot more where that came from!’ He then told me to call him Provis 
from now on. That was his name in Australia. When Provis said he had returned 
permanently, I went to see Mr Jaggers at once. Unfortunately, he confirmed that Provis 
was my benefact or, and advised me to be careful. I was sure that Provis would be 
caught. Even with the new clothes that I had bought him, he still looked like a convict. 
We did not go out for several days while I wondered what to  do. Then Herbert returned. 
Provis told him not to tell  anyone that he was there, and Herbert, who was as scared as I 
was, immediately  agreed. ‘We’ll make you a gentleman, too, my boy!’ Provis laughed. I 
was grateful to Provis because he had done so much for me, but at the same time, I also 
disliked his behaviour. He boasted that he had made me a gentleman, and he thought 
that I would be happy with a wealthy new life in London. Now that I knew the truth, 
however, I was horrified. My benefactor was a criminal! I knew that I could not accept 
any more money from him in the future. Herbert and I knew that Provis would be caught 
if he stayed in England. As he had been so good to me, I felt it was my duty to help him 
escape. After that, I never wanted to see him again. The next day, Provis told Herbert  
and me about his life. He did not know where he was born, or who his parents were. He had been alone for as long as he could remember. As a child he was always hungry, so 
he stole and begged to survive. As he grew up, he continued to steal and spent more 
and more time in prison. However, when he was not in prison, he sometimes worked for 
a short time. He learnt to read and write from people that he met as he travelled around 
the country. He even got married and it seemed that his life was finally improving. Then, 
one day, he met a man called Compeyson. At first, Provis thought that his new f riend 
was a gentleman; he wore fine clothes and spoke well. But then Provis discovered that 
Compeyson was really a dishonest person.  He found out that Compeyson and his 
friend, Arthur, had been very successful in the past, and had even tricked a rich, young 
woman out of most of her money. They had now spent almost all the money and needed 
to get some more. Arthur could not help because he was too ill, but he also felt guilty for 
what he had done in the past. So Provis began to steal for Compeyson, and soon they 
were both caught. However, Compeyson told everyone in court that Provis was 
responsible for all the crimes. Because Compeyson lo oked and behaved like a 
gentleman, the court believed him. As a result, Provis was given a longer prison 
sentence than Compeyson. The two men were both sent to the same prison ship, far out 
on some marshes. One day, after they had had a bad argument, Provi s dived off the ship 
and swam to land. It was while he was hiding in the graveyard nearby that he met me.  
Compeyson had also escaped from the ship that day. When I had met the second 
convict on the marshes and had told Provis that there was a second man, he had 
started to search for him. When the two men met, they began to fi ght. It was then that 
they were found by the soldiers and taken back to the prison ship. I remembered that 
Joe and I had walked with the soldiers that day, and that we had seen what had 
happened. When the convicts had returned to the prison ship, Compeyso n was put in 
leg-irons for trying to escape. However, Provis got a life sentence and was sent 
to Australia. ‘Well, you can see that I didn’t stay there for life. I had to come back to see 
you, Pip,’ he said. ‘I wanted to see you as a gentleman.’ At that mo ment, I began to feel 
sorry for Provis, but I was horrified by him, too. ‘Is Compeyson still alive?’ I asked. ‘I 
don’t know,’ he replied. ‘But if he is, I am sure that he will want to kill me!’ Just then, 
Herbert showed me a note that he had written. It sa id, Miss Havisham’s half -brother 
was called Arthur. Compeyson is the man who took Miss Havisham’s fortune and 
deserted her! When I read this, I feared for Provis. Compeyson would certainly kill him if 
he found him. Herbert and I both knew now that Provis m ust leave the country as soon 
as possible. I felt that I must go with him, to help him escape, and I did not know how 
long it would be before I would return.  