When I realised that the man in the inn had met the convict I helped on the 
marshes, I wanted to take Joe away. Before we could go,however , the man took 
out a new coin. He wrapped it in some paper and gave it to me. ‘This is yours,’ he 
said, ‘but be careful!’ Feeling frightened, I took the coin and left with Joe. When 
we got home, we realised that the Paper wrapped around the coin was a poun d 
note. Joe went back to the inn immediately to try to find the man and return his 
note to him. However, the man had left. Mrs Joe put the pound note on a shelf 
where it would be safe and there it remained. On my next visit to Miss Havisham’s 
house, Estell a took me into a gloomy room where three ladies and a gentleman 
were waiting. They were Miss Havisham’s relatives, Sarah, Georgiana, Camilla and 
Raymond Pocket, and they had also come to see her that day. A bell rang far away. 
Miss Havisham was ready to se e me. Holding up her candle, Estella led me 
through the dark house. ‘Well, boy!’ she asked. ‘Am I pretty?’ ‘Yes, you are very 
pretty.’ ‘Why don’t you cry?’ she asked, looking unkindly at me. ‘I’ll never cry 
again,’ I said. Just then, we met a large, dark -haired man on the stairs. ‘Ah, you are 
a neighbour, I think?’ he asked. ‘Yes, sir,’ I replied. ‘Why are you here, boy?’ ‘Miss 
Havisham asked for me,’ I explained. ‘Well, behave yourself! This is not a place for 
children to play,’ he said, before walking awa y. I thought that he might be a doctor, 
and I continued walking up the stairs. I soon found myself in Miss Havisham’s 
room again. Everything was the same as before. ‘So! Are you ready to play?’ she 
asked. ‘I don’t think I am, madam,’ I replied. ‘Well, do y ou want to work then?’ I 
said that I did, and she told me to wait for her in the dining room opposite. When I 
entered the dark room, I could see a long table laid with a table - cloth and plates, 
prepared for a wedding celebration, but now it was dusty and covered with 
spiders’ webs. The room looked like it had been exactly the same for many years. 
There were spiders and mice everywhere. I was looking around the room and 
watching the spiders when Miss Havisham came quietly into the room behind me. 
‘What do y ou think that is?’ asked Miss Havisham, pointing at a tall shape in the 
centre of the table. I went closer. ‘It’s a cake, Pip. A wedding cake! Mine!’ she 
went on. ‘And now, walk with me.’ She asked me to walk with her around the 
room, which we did for some  minutes, until Estella and the Pockets came in. They 
asked about Miss Havisham’s health and wished her a happy birthday, but she 
sent them away. ‘That wedding cake was brought here, a long time before you were born,’ Miss Havisham told me. ‘And everything is still here.’ She stood for a 
long time, looking at the table. Then we returned to her dressing room and Miss 
Havisham told Estella and me to play. So we sat down to play games in her 
dressing room but t his time Estella refused to speak to me. Finally, Miss Havisham 
asked me to return in a few days and allowed me to leave. Estella led me out of 
the house, again put my food and drink on the ground and shut the door. Alone in 
the garden, I was surprised to see another boy looking at me out of a window. He 
disappeared into the house, and then came out into the garden to speak to me. 
He had very pale skin and short fair hair, so in my mind, I called him ‘the pale 
young gentleman’. ‘Hello, who let you in?’ he a sked. ‘Estella,’ I replied. ‘Come and 
fight, then!’ he said, preparing to hit me. The boy was my age, but much taller 
than me. I ran at him hard and he fell over. He jumped up, prepared to fight again, 
so I ran at him again. This time he got a black eye. H e did not seem to be strong 
and never hit me hard. The fight continued for several minutes until the boy was 
on his knees, saying, ‘You have won!’ He was so brave that I felt sorry for him. ‘Can 
I help?’ I asked. ‘No, thank you. Goodbye,’ he answered. I kn ew that it was time to 
leave. I did not see the pale young gentleman at Miss Havisham’s again, although 
my visits continued. Nothing ever changed. Miss Havisham sat in her wedding 
dress, in her dusty dressing room; Estella and I played games as she watched ; and 
Miss Havisham asked if I thought Estella was pretty. I always said yes, and Miss 
Havisham seemed happy with this answer. Mrs Joe and Uncle Pumblechook had 
been talking about the same thing ever since I had started to visit Miss Havisham. 
They were su re that she wanted to give me all her money, and they wanted my 
visits to continue. ‘What will you be when you grow up, Pip?’ she asked one day. ‘I 
am going to become Joe’s apprentice and learn to be a blacksmith,’ I said. ‘Then 
tell Joe to come here at on ce,’ she replied. When Joe came with me on my next 
visit, Miss Havisham gave him a large bag of money. ‘Pip will become your 
apprentice now,’ she said. ‘He is a good boy and this is his reward. The money is to 
pay for his apprenticeship. But that’s your lo t! This is all you will get from me, Mr 
Gargery!’ ‘Shall I visit you again, Miss Havisham?’ I asked. ‘No,’ she replied, ‘Joe is 
your boss now. Estella, show them out!’ And so my apprenticeship with Joe began. 
But I had changed. I no longer wanted to be a b lacksmith; now, I was ashamed of 
my home and my family. Estella was often in my thoughts, although I did not see her any more. I was sure that she did not like my position in life, so I continued my 
education and worked hard. This was largely thanks to Biddy, who gave me lessons 
and taught me as much as she knew. Although she was older than me, Biddy was 
my friend. A bout a year after my apprenticeship with Joe had begun, I asked Joe 
for an afternoon’s holiday, so that I could visit Miss Havisham and thank her for 
helping me. When Orlick, Joe’s workman, heard that I was going, he was very 
angry. He did not think it was  right that I should have an afternoon’s holiday, while 
he could not have one too. I did not like Orlick; he was large and slow, and he 
often tried to make my life difficult at work. An argument began between Orlick 
and Mrs Joe, who wanted me to see Miss H avisham again. In the end, Joe had to 
stop them. But there was something strange about Orlick, but I could not put my 
finger on what it was.  